All right, so picking up from where we left off, let's go ahead and just try running all of the tests
now.
So let me open that up and I will just jump over here to the test class.
Actually, I guess I can close that jump up here to the top and select that and just run everything
now.
And let's see what happens.
All right.
As I suspected, we do have a few failures.
All right, and we actually are ignoring the find all now, we may need to do something with that because
I'm pretty sure we're going to see some real issues with the find all.
But let's see what else we've got here.
So here's one can find person by IED with home address.
So what's the issue here?
We're getting a null pointer.
Exception cannot invoke long value because the return type of the get value by Alias is null.
So let's click on this line.
119 Get value by alias and this is on the extract person.
So we're trying to get the person's I.D..
Now, what this seems to be implying is that we're trying to find a column.
Now, I don't know what was in the prefix here, but we're trying to find a column with the term ID
in it.
And one way or another, that's returning back with a null from the database.
And I think the issue here is that we're trying to set a primitive long to a null.
There is no way to convert a null value into a primitive long.
OK.
So I see two ways of solving this.
I could solve it on face value by simply making this a wrapper long instead of a primitive long, which
would then allow this person idea to be null.
But the bigger question in my mind is why is this null at all?
I don't think it should be.
So what I'm really thinking here is to maybe stick a breakpoint on here and run just that one test and
stop here and see what column is it actually trying to retrieve?
And how come there apparently isn't a column with whatever that name is?
So let's try that.
So I'm going to double click on this one failing method test method here and then come up here and run
this in debug mode.
All right.
So what is our alias here?
Parent underscore is the alias, and let's also see.
Our stack over here to see like, how did we get here?
OK, so parent underscore I.D. Let's go check our school for find my I.D. parent underscore ID that
should exist, and we are using the get value by alias method, which honors aliases and we can also
peek inside of this result set.
So here's our results set variable right here.
So I'm going to click on that and then I can click on this result here.
And then I can go inside of this current row.
All right, so that's clearly an ID right there.
And if I open this up, let's see.
So what I want to see now is what is the maybe the metadata that's associated with that column?
Perhaps.
All right.
So in this result here, if I come down here to expressions and then open that up, I can see here that
one of the expressions, which pretty much aligns with the columns is parent that ID as parent ID.
And then I can even expand that and I can see right here that there is indeed an alias called Parent
Underscore ID.
I don't know if I can dig into this more.
OK, that's far enough.
So Parent Underscore ID is an actual alias in this results set.
So let's see what happens if I step over this.
So that did not blow up.
OK, so I'm going to let this run because maybe something about my test is causing this method to get
called more than once.
So I'm going to let that resume.
OK, so yes, it is getting called again.
And I still have an alias of parent I.D. here, so I'm guessing this should be OK.
In fact, they will step over it.
Ah, so that one just blew up.
OK.
OK, so that's interesting, so I'm going to run this again now, because now I know that the second
time that I step over that, the second time that I iterate over this, that's when it's going to blow
up.
So then I'll pay closer attention to what's going on.
All right.
So I'm going to run that again.
All right, so this first time, I can just skip over that or let it run all the way through, so I
just click that button to run through.
And now I'm back in here again for a second time now.
This time I'm going to pay more attention, so I'm going to open up this result set.
And then I'm going to go down to result.
And all and current row.
OK, so the current row has an ID of two three five one, apparently.
Let's see what's in this rose object here.
Yeah, there's there's the ID going to close that.
Let's look in here in expressions.
Parent ID's, parent underscore I.D..
And there's.
There it is, parent underscore ID, so there is an alias called Parent Underscore ID.
So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to jump into this get value by alias method here, so I can
do that right here, step into rather.
So I'm going to step into that and then I'm going to step over.
So there's the column count, which is 30, and then we're setting up a loop to loop over all of the
columns now.
So I'm going to step over that.
And now we're saying if the current alias, which is child underscore I.D. equals whatever the metadata
column label is for the current column index, which is the first index, if that's equal, then we
found what we're looking for.
So currently we're looking for the column whose alias is child I.D..
So I think this is going to get skipped over.
Yet that got skipped over.
Now, I don't really want to have to iterate over this 30 times, so what I can do is I can set up what's
called a watch variable so that I can keep an eye on what this value is right here.
Each time I iterate over this little loop quickly.
So to do that, I can select all of this and then right click on it.
And come down here and click on add to watches.
So now this expression is being evaluated in real time for me, and currently it is equal to parent
underscore first name.
OK, so now I can just quickly iterate over this for loop.
Like so.
Date of birth, salary.
Email and now child I.D..
And that is what the alias is equal to.
Alias is equal detailed ID.
So now this should work.
So now we shouldn't skip over this.
If Bloch because alias, which is currently set the Child ID, will in fact equal child ID, which is
the result of this entire expression here.
So now the the thread should step in to this line.
So let's see that.
Yep.
So it stepped in, and now we're going to get this value here and we can even set up a watch for that
to.
Add to watches.
OK, so here.
This value is null, which really I think is just telling us essentially that there is no child for
this particular parent, which makes sense because most of the parents in our database don't have children.
And I think this use case that we're testing here is one where we don't have a child.
All right.
So the child ID is null.
So let's see what happens now if we keep stepping over.
So we're going to return a null right here.
Oh, now that's kind of interesting.
Our alias prefix is currently set to child.
I don't think it should be.
Why is our alias prefix set the child and not parent?
Let's see here what called this.
So we got to this extract person call from here.
Ah, well, because we're calling the extract person to get a child now.
Ah, and there we have it.
OK.
So we're trying to extract the child from a record that doesn't have a child.
And so what should happen in this case is that this method probably should just return either a null
or an empty optional of a of a child, one or the other.
So what's going to happen here is that this method is going to return a null, but a null value cannot
be assigned to a primitive long.
And so it's going to blow up with a null pointer exception.
That's what's happening here.
So maybe what we want to do in this case is, first off, I think we are going to need to use a wrapper
long instead of a primitive long so that this can be assigned a null, perhaps.
And then we may want to simply have a test right after this line that says something like if person
idea is null, then either return a null or return an empty optional of a person, something along those
lines.
OK, so now we see what this issue is.
OK, so I'm going to go ahead and let that run through and it's going to blow up.
And so the first thing we'll do is just make this a wrapper long that would prevent the null pointer
exception from occurring.
And now what we could do is just test right here, if person I.D. is null, then return.
Now, I think we probably really should use an optional here.
So I'm going to say it this way.
I'm going to say return optional.
Empty.
I need to close that off now I'm getting the red squiggly, because currently this method is designed
to not return an optional, but to return an actual person.
So we want to change this signature now to return an optional of a person.
And that means down here now we're going to have to do the same.
So return an optional of person notice.
I'm not using of knowable here because I presume that if I got this far that I do have a real person
object, I'm stopping it short, though up here.
If I don't have an ID, then surely I shouldn't even bother with the rest of these lines.
And so let's just immediately short circuit all of that and just return an empty, optional.
Now, of course, that's going to cause problems up here now.
So first, let's just address this one.
So I think what I will do here is make this just take an optional person.
Like so.
And now we need to decide what are we going to do if we're now dealing with optional?
I don't even want to add an empty, optional child here.
So what we really want to do is conditionally add the child if the child isn't empty, right?
Let's see if we can do something kind of fancy with optional here.
So maybe we can say something like child dot if present.
Then final.
Parent, can we do this?
Can we use a method reference, hey, look at that.
I think we can.
So let's take out the Java doc for the fifth president, by the way, because let's see here if a value
US president performs to give action with the value otherwise does nothing.
So that's good because it looks like the if president will unwrap the value inside of the optional,
which is exactly what we want here and then pass that in to the add child method, which is why this
isn't giving us an error.
And that's exactly the behavior that we want.
So that's quite nice.
That way, we don't have to explicitly write if child that is present, then final parent died, add
child and then add the we don't have to write all of that.
This is more concise.
OK, so that's quite lovely.
Then what do we want to do appear?
I think for now, let's just call get.
The reason I'm doing that for now is because two things.
First off, I'm inclined to let our tests tell me if I need to do more than this.
And secondly, if our framework is calling this method and we're getting this far, there is supposed
to be at least a parent.
That parent is supposed to exist.
So I don't believe that there should generally be a situation where we get this far.
And yet we can't extract this parent properly and the parent doesn't exist.
If there is no parent existing, then this method shouldn't even get called because our results set
shouldn't have any rose returning from it.
In other words, you know, we're trying to do a fine by ID in this particular case, and if there is
no record in the database with that parent ID or what that person ID, then there will be no results
returned from our results set.
And therefore this method should not even get called at all.
That's what I believe should be happening.
All right.
So let's go ahead and rerun all of the tests.
Let's see.
So we had four tests that failed before, so let's see what we have now.
Oh, wow.
All of them fell now.
OK.
Let's click on this and see Oh, because I'm back in the database, am I?
No, no, I'm not back in the database.
So here's I think what's happening right now is that one of our debug sessions is still running and
this this can happen sometimes.
So what I'm going to do now, so now I need to find where that debug session is that may be running
right now.
So what I can do is come up here to run and look at that right there.
Stop rerun failed tests.
So yeah, something was still running there.
So I'm going to click that, OK?
Hopefully, that killed it.
And now let me try again to run all the tests.
OK, that looks a lot better.
So hope you caught that.
Oh, and that's looking a lot better, too.
Hey, look at that.
It looks like we fixed everything.
Wow.
Honestly, I was sort of expecting that more would still be broken.
So that's cool, though I do think now we if I were to come in here and allow this, find all to run,
we might run into issues again.
So let's go ahead and try to address this issue now with the fine doll.
And I think all we need to do is just revise its query so that it won't actually be capable of retrieving
every single record in the database.
We will limit it to perhaps like 100 records or so.
OK, so select everything.
Here's our here's our Find All sequel from people, and what we can do is simply something like that.
First 100 rows only.
There you go.
Now I could parameter rise this number and we could make it so that we could change that programmatically
or something.
But for now, we'll just do it this way and then we'll jump over to our test.
And I think that was kind of towards the bottom.
There it is.
Disabled note that's the low data one.
There it is, this guy right here, so I'm going to remove that.
And now let's run all the tests again.
All right, and we've got one failed test, and can we guess which one it is yet?
Is this can find all and column not found for alias parent I.D. OK, so we're not going to try to fix
this in this lesson.
I just wanted to confirm that we would have an issue there as I thought we would OK.
So we'll we'll fix this one in the next lesson.
All right, so I'll see you in the next one.